---
title: I am Twin Snakes
date: 2017/12/21 21:59:57
tags: words,ideas,weird
---

Well we all are. The left-right, give-take, push-pull divide in the brain, in politics and in the shape of molecules. These two opposing shapes (like the complementary whirlpool of air which fills the void left by the water twisting down the plughole, in their mere crinkles, like furrows which steer water as it creeps into rock, these two opposite sides of the all. Everything is made up of two complementary halves. The cup creates the place for the wine to be. Ok, but snakes? Yes. When this idea first occurred to me I framed it like "so what we call a human being is a union of these two snakes". Then "well of if that's true then I'm a human being so it applies to me too"..."so it means I am two snakes, which doesn't feel like something I want to say about myself". Evolution tends to build outwards, to tack-onto the organism. It tends to be true that the deeper the structure (in the human brain, for example), the older (in an evolutionary sense) it is. And the older a feature is, the more likely it might be shared with other organisms, cousins branching off from a shared ancestor with an archetype of the feature. The stem of the brain runs things like breathing and the (cardiac reflex? whatever the electrical pulse the triggers cardiac muscle) The R-Complex is responsible for things like our drive to stay alive, our involuntary responses and our desires to follow beaureucratic patterns and rituals. We share this ancient brain structure with reptiles. Where the two sides (always trying to meet, to kiss through the glass ) of this uncrumpling cosmic sheet pinch closest together sometimes the force (like a tightening of a net only on more dimensions but something like a squeezing rather than a relaxing).......
