---
title: Inaccurate Senses
date: 2017/10/25
tags: words,ideas
---

How inaccurate are our senses? Before living things had eyes, nothing cared how anything else looked. The earliest eye probably consisted of a few light-detection cells which could detect how dark or light the surroundings were. At this point colouring would have been irrelevant so creatures wouldn't have bothered with it. Colours would have evolved alongside colour-sensing apparatus. There would be no point in a flower advertising itself with purple petals if bees couldn't see purple.; your colouring doesn't need to blend in with your background if your adversaries are blind and can only detect you by feeling the vibration of the ground as you walk on it. We are surrounded by electromagnetic radiation, a form of energy which travels in waves. These waves all move at the speed of light, but some are shorter meaning you get more of them in the same space, while some are longer so appear less frequently. The slower (although still incredibly fast) waves are used to transmit TV and radio signals, and the even faster waves are beamed through our bodies by medical practitioners as x-rays. Somewhere in the middle of this there is a tiny range (waves rippling between 400,000,000,000,000 and 790,000,000,000,000 times per second) which our eyes can detect and interpret as colours. If you picture a rainbow blending from red to violet, that blend of colour extends far off both ends of the rainbow, it's just that our eyes can't detect the waves at those faster or slower frequencies. It's hard to say how big the entire range of wave frequencies is, as theoretically
