---
title: Science and Reductionism
date: 2017 10 25
tags: word,idea
---

Of course the scientific method has helped us achieve many great things. But it's also taught people to reason in a horrible reductive way. Everything's "simply this" or "complexObjectX is exactly the same as complexObjectY because an experiment comparing a couple of variables said so" Example "table salt is exactly the same as Himalayan salt because sodium chloride"... no it isn't because there are trace elements which may or may not have an effect in the contained quantities... or after accumulation of the contained quantities lets them build up to other levels. More solidly it is known that the shape and size of a salt particle affects the way it dissolves on the tongue... regular tiny table salt crystals hit broad areas of the tongue in a dense and unvarying 'shower' which might be compared to a blurred harshness. Flaked crystals (for example) produce unevenly-sized puddles of saltiness that melt at different rates. The scientific method requires controlled environments and variables. Which is exactly what reality does not consist of. It abstracts concepts so far from the blurry, interacting way they occur in real life that the results are often of no practical value. What's the use in knowing that chocolate decreases the risk in heart disease by blah % in blah % of people? How do you know if you're in the blah % or outside it? What if eating it in a diet that included cheese in the last 6 months decreases it but if eating it in a diet which included cheese in the past month and not in the previous 6 months increases it? The more accurate you want scientific results to be, the more you have to create unrealistic, abstract circumstances to test in. And the follow-on from that is that the results are less applicable to real life in the real world. If you need an example think of varying dietary advice which has been fired at you over the course of your life. When I was a child we were told to eat a high proportion of fibre and carbs and minimise fat. Now it's 'known' that certain fats are beneficial, a certain amount is essential to health etc
