---
title: Senses are Just Another Type of Feeling
date: 2017/10/25
tags: words,ideas
---

Senses are just a type of feeling, sometimes we forget that as we wrap them in conceptual clingfilm. We 'see with our eyes', 'hear with our ears' and so on but as is so often the case, in the relentless quest to categorise and classify an essence is lost. We feel vibrations or movement in the ocean of air through the hair-spiked vibration-feelers in our inner ears; this we call sound, but some rates of vibration are too slow to be detected by these sensors and are instead felt in our bellies. Sometimes the vibrations happen too quickly for the sound-sensors to pick up on, but those vibrations are still happening just the same. Some radiation waves can be felt as heat in our fingers, while other waves of different lengths are felt by the rod-shaped and cone-shaped cells on the inside of our eyeballs. It is only on arrival in the brain that the electrical signals sent from these cells 'become' colours, once the consciousness (whatever that may be) assimilates them. Colours are not 'out there', they are 'in here', and if they move too fast or too slow, they are undetectable (or 'invisible' as we like to say). So what am I writing? Well everything surrounding us moves, throbs, oscillates; sometimes in obvious rhythm, sometimes in patterns that are so widely-spaced or complex in their repetitions that they ellude us. We are all inside and outside this perpetually heaving mass at once. Some of the faster (or slower, depending on your perspective) vibrations happen to be detectable, and it is these that we knead and fold inside our cortexes into some kind of conscious experience. For the 'realists' out there - seeing isn't believing, and neither is hearing; it's all just pretend.
