---
title: Why the Cosmos Might have been Created for Us
date: 2017/10/25 21:01:26
tags: words,ideas,weird
layout: post.njk
collection: words
---

'A Universe From Nothing' by Lawrence Krauss, AAII 2009 (1:04:52 total, question asked at 0:44min) "this completes the ultimate Copernican principle. We constitute a 1% bit of pollution in a universe that is 30% Dark Matter and 70% Dark Energy. We are completely irrelevant. Why such a universe in which we are so irrelevant would be made for us is beyond me."   we are sentient, perhaps the universe and its energy is a machine for producing that intelligence. In the same way as a large plant can invest a lot of energy into producing a small number of small fruit. The scales are off by orders of magnitude but if the fruit is exotic enough (as intelligence may be) then maybe the effort:reward ratio is ok. As points of intelligent consciousness we are very powerful because we are able to step outside the effective but plodding trial and error which evolution and Darwinism rely on. Conscious intent or free will can make things happen quickly. If our universe existed in a Darwinistic multiverse in which its 'aim' (to take the intentional stance from evol. theory) were simply to survive longer than the other universes, could the 'hope' be that intelligence will come far enough to stop the universe from collapsing or crunching or burning out or whatever death may seem to be its fate? (we may be insignificant, just offering diff POV) explain simulated life 'proof' take st grands AI ideas, could be that an environment and a life and fears and needs are an essential part of useful intelligence. A genuine fear of death/love of life must be held as motivation for intelligence to arise. so the universe farms intelligence (for itself? if not how is the intelligence 'harvested'?) if our universe had been created artificially like this, the creator would not need to have predicted what types of intelligence might arise, for example there would be no need to have for planned evolution to work how it does, or for humans to exist or societies to evole. Refer to John Conway's game of life.
