---
title: WWIII - Conspiracy Theorist vs Believers in the System?
date: 2017/10/25
tags: word,idea,weird
---

Are conspiracy theorists potentially being set up as the post-WWIII enemy? This is a contentious idea and I don't want to cause a row, let me first say that I believe conspiracy theorists and skeptics need each other :) I've done my best to word it accordingly. This is a question which has spun off from reading Albert Pike's alleged WWIII letter (http://www.disclose.tv/forum/albert-pike-s-ww1-ww2-ww3-prophecy-made-in-1871-t5167.html), and my lurking/reading of ATS over the past few months. First the letter (which may or may not be a fake), it was specifically this part which stuck in my mind: "The war must be conducted in such a way that Islam (the Moslem Arabic World) and political Zionism (the State of Israel) mutually destroy each other. Meanwhile the other nations, once more divided on this issue will be constrained to fight to the point of complete physical, moral, spiritual and economical exhaustion&We shall unleash the Nihilists and the atheists, and we shall provoke a formidable social cataclysm which in all its horror will show clearly to the nations the effect of absolute atheism, origin of savagery and of the most bloody turmoil. Then everywhere, the citizens, obliged to defend themselves against the world minority of revolutionaries, will exterminate those destroyers of civilization" To me this reads like most of the world will be forced to choose sides in 'the good fight' (which will have been whipped up intentionally as part of a divide-and-conquer tactic), but those who (believe they) see through the fakery and refuse to choose sides will become 'the world minority of revolutionaries' Although I accept that I'm only human so am therefore prone to bias and subjectivity, I can't help noticing (here on ATS and also in the world-at-large) that when a CT presents an idea they are, more often than not fairly calm about it, but when a skeptic debunks them they tend towards doing it angrily and forcefully. I am very much generalising here and there are plenty of chilled, well-balanced skeptics and angry irrational conspiracy theorists, but from my point of view this is what I believe I have observed. You may disagree (but please try to do it with civility if that is the case). Could it be that, as the ones who see the theatre being played out and being unable to choose a side, the CTs will opt out of WWIII, and then end up becoming revolutionaries? And then come to be perceived by the rest of the world (skeptics) as the enemy, and end up getting wiped out? It would be a very effective way for the powers-that-be to cleanse the gene pool of the types of people who see through their tricks and stand in the way of their march towards world domination. I am being entirely hypothetical with all of this, it is based on believing many things which I am still undecided about, but the idea has been on my mind and I thought some ATSers might be interested. I would love to read what you think but I don't want any agression or arguing - indeed, if this hypothesis did turn out to be correct then I say that's all the more reason for both sides (CTs/skeptics) to try to be more tolerant of each other and understand each other's points of view.
